@c
@c footer.texi -- MININIM homepage: gnu.org standard footer
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.  A copy of the license is
@c included in the section entitled “GNU Free Documentation License.”.
@c

@html
</div><!-- for id="content", starts in the include above -->
<!--#include virtual="/server/footer.html" -->
<div id="footer">

<p>Please send general FSF &amp; GNU inquiries to
<a href="mailto:gnu@@gnu.org">&lt;gnu@@gnu.org&gt;</a>.
There are also <a href="/contact/">other ways to contact</a>
the FSF.  Broken links and other corrections or suggestions can be sent
to <a href="mailto:bug-mininim@@gnu.org">&lt;bug-mininim@@gnu.org&gt;</a>.</p>

<p><!-- TRANSLATORS: Ignore the original text in this paragraph,
        replace it with the translation of these two:

        We work hard and do our best to provide accurate, good quality
        translations.  However, we are not exempt from imperfection.
        Please send your comments and general suggestions in this regard
        to <a href="mailto:web-translators@@gnu.org">
        &lt;web-translators@@gnu.org&gt;</a>.</p>

        <p>For information on coordinating and submitting translations of
        our web pages, see <a
        href="/server/standards/README.translations.html">Translations
        README</a>. -->
Please see the <a
href="/server/standards/README.translations.html">Translations
README</a> for information on coordinating and submitting translations
of this article.</p>

<!-- Regarding copyright, in general, standalone pages (as opposed to
     files generated as part of manuals) on the GNU web server should
     be under CC BY-ND 3.0 US.  Please do NOT change or remove this
     without talking with the webmasters or licensing team first.
     Please make sure the copyright date is consistent with the
     document.  For web pages, it is ok to list just the latest year the
     document was modified, or published.

     If you wish to list earlier years, that is ok too.
     Either "2001, 2002, 2003" or "2001-2003" are ok for specifying
     years, as long as each year in the range is in fact a copyrightable
     year, i.e., a year in which the document was published (including
     being publicly visible on the web or in a revision control system).

     There is more detail about copyright years in the GNU Maintainers
     Information document, www.gnu.org/prep/maintain. -->

<p>Copyright &copy; 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc.</p>

<p>This page is licensed under a <a rel="license"
href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/3.0/us/">Creative
Commons Attribution-NoDerivs 3.0 United States License</a>.</p>

<!--#include virtual="/server/bottom-notes.html" -->

<p>Updated:
<!-- timestamp start -->
$Date$
<!-- timestamp end -->
</p>
</div>
</div>
@end html
