@c
@c ANNOUNCEMENT.texi -- Announcement of new release;
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@c %**start of header
@ifclear manual
@setfilename ANNOUNCEMENT
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@settitle ANNOUNCEMENT
@end ifclear
@include release.texi
@c %**end of header
@set announcement





@c --- homepage: Navigation bar;
@ifset homepage
@include navigation.texi
@end ifset





@ifclear manual
@centerchap @value{package} @value{version} (@value{date})
@end ifclear

@include description.texi




@heading News

@include latest-news.texi





@heading Links

@table @asis
@item Homepage
@url{@value{webUrl}}
@item Atom feed
@url{@value{atomUrl}}
@item Forum
@url{@value{forumUrl}}
@item IRC channel
@url{@value{IRCurl}}
@item Bug reporting
@url{@value{issuesUrl}}
@item VCS
@url{@value{GITweb}}
@end table





@heading Download

@subheading User's Manual

If you just want to have a look in the latest release documentation, you
can download the manual in PDF format separately.

@url{@value{pdfUrl}}


@subheading Windows

If you are under Microsoft Windows a MinGW build is readily available.
No installation is required, just extract the zip archive and run
@command{mininim.exe}.  The PDF manual is bundled as well.

@url{@value{winZipUrl}}


@subheading GNU/Linux

If you use GNU/Linux, you have to build from source.  This should be
quite straightforward, provided you install the Allegro 5 development
libraries using your distribution’s package manager.  If you use an apt
based distribution (Debian, Ubuntu, @enddots{}) you can do this by
invoking the command:

@example
sudo apt-get install '^liballegro.*5-dev$'
@end example

When building the sources, the usual incantation @code{./configure &&
make} is often enough. The installation step (@code{make install}) is
optional as MININIM is able to run directly from its source directory
(provided you don’t make a @env{VPATH} build, in which case you need to
specify the @emph{data path}. See the @option{--data-path} option).

@noindent
Here are the compressed sources and a GPG detached signature:

@itemize
@item @url{@value{tarballUrl}}
@item @url{@value{tarSignUrl}}
@end itemize

Use the @file{.sig} file to verify that the corresponding file (without
the @file{.sig} suffix) is intact.  First, be sure to download both the
@file{.sig} file and the corresponding tarball.  Then, run this command:

@example
gpg --verify @value{tarSign}
@end example

If that command fails because you don't have the required public key,
then run this command to import it:

@example
gpg --recv-keys @value{keyID} --keyserver hkp://keys.gnupg.net
@end example

@noindent
and rerun the @code{gpg --verify} command.

This release is signed by @emph{@value{signer}}.  His key fingerprint
is @code{@value{fingerprint}}.

@noindent
This release was bootstrapped with the following tools:
@itemize
@item
GNU Autoconf @value{autoconfVersion}
@item
GNU Automake @value{automakeVersion}
@item
GNU Texinfo @value{texinfoVersion}
@end itemize





@heading To do

The following additional features are planned to be implemented
eventually.


@include todo-items.texi





@heading Please, support MININIM development!
@include donating.texi





@c --- homepage: Footer;
@ifset homepage
@include footer.texi
@end ifset
