@c
@c description.texi -- Description
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@cartouche
@emph{Menininho} is the Brazilian Portuguese word for @emph{male kid},
and @emph{mininim} is how it's informally pronounced throughout the
country.  @emph{Kid} is the term used by @emph{Jordan
Mechner}@footnote{Jordan Mechner (born June 4, 1964) is an American
video game designer, author, screenwriter, and filmmaker, best known for
creating the Prince of Persia video game franchise and the 8-bit
computer game Karateka.} when referring to the main character of his
most famous game --- @strong{Prince of Persia} --- in its source code
and documentation, because the character's movements were derived from
rotoscoping footage of Mechner's little brother.  @strong{MININIM} is
the @emph{Advanced Prince of Persia Engine}, written from scratch by
computer programmer and free software activist @emph{Bruno Félix Rezende
Ribeiro} (@code{oitofelix}).  Bruno had a childhood dream of deciphering
the secrets of his favorite game that introduced him to computing --- a
dream dreamt when he was just a kid, a dream realized now that he's
still a @emph{mininim} deep in his heart.@footnote{Of course, none of
this is reason enough to name a game engine ``MININIM'', if not by the
fact that it's a really cool palindrome!}
@end cartouche

MININIM is the Advanced Prince of Persia Engine --- a childhood dream,
the free software implementation of Jordan Mechner's masterpiece game,
developed from scratch by Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro
(@code{oitofelix}).  @emph{MININIM is free software}; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU
@acronym{@url{@value{progLicenseURL}, GPL}, General Public Licence} as
published by the @acronym{FSF, Free Software Foundation}; either version
3, or (at your option) any later version.

In addition to being already a complete replacement for the original
game with several improvements, MININIM aims to have detailed
documentation on all matters concerning the original Prince of Persia
world, ranging from its design concepts to the engine's practical use
and development.  @emph{MININIM documentation is free}; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU
@acronym{@url{@value{docLicenseURL}, FDL}, Free Documentation Licence}
as published by the FSF --- with no Invariant Sections; either version
1.3, or (at your option) any later version.

MININIM features various improvements over the original game, too many
to make an exhaustive list here.  Some of its noteworthy advantages are:

@itemize
@item Portable to modern operating systems.
@item Complete built-in level editor featuring an uniform and
non-intrusive bottom-line menu interface and unlimited undo/redo for
level modifications.
@item Video, environment, hue and guard modes may be selected on-the-fly.
@item Joystick mapping and threshold configuration.
@item Improved battle system based on upgradable skills, arbitrary
number of simultaneous fighters and smarter enemy AI.
@item Real-time responsiveness, higher world interaction accuracy and
more stable animations.
@item New useful movements.
@item Integrated configuration system using multiple back-ends.
@item Capability of loading level files in multiple formats, including
legacy and native level formats.
@end itemize
