@c
@c latest-news.texi -- Latest release news items;
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@c This file is intended to provide the latest release news for the
@c 'NEWS.texi' and 'ANNOUNCEMENT.texi' files to avoid duplication of
@c information and syncing work.  After a release is made the news items
@c below should be moved to the 'NEWS.texi' file and another list should
@c be built from scratch here.

@strong{Features:}

@itemize
@item Joystick support.
@item Apoplexy level editor integration.
@item Classic numeric keypad control.
@item Support for reading legacy PoP 1 @file{LEVELS.DAT} file using
the option @option{--legacy-level=DAT}.
@item Support for reading legacy PoP 1 PLV extended level files using
the option @option{--legacy-level=PLV}.
@item Command line compatibility for the sake of applications
which use it.
@item @file{LEVELS.DAT} legacy loading behavior compatibility.
@item Kid start position can be specified using the
@option{--start-pos} option.
@item Disable screensaver by default.
@item Guards have infallible defense in refraction periods.
@item Shadow in legacy level 12 has the same total/current life points
as the kid, and life points are taken off one at a time.
@end itemize

@strong{Bug fixes:}

@itemize
@item Spurious wall collision occurs in kid's
stabilization movement.
@item Kid can't hang on a ledge after a
long floating fall.
@item Kid's @emph{run} movement after a
@emph{running turn} starts one frame off.
@item In some circumstances the kid is unable to reach
the other end after a jump, as if a force field prevented him from
landing there.
@item Kid dies after just touching guards.
@item Guards spuriously attack thin air while trying
to prevent the kid from bypassing them.
@item While in counter attack and counter defense mode
kid defends even if too far from the guard, when he could otherwise let
the guard strike only thin air.
@item Restarting the game while it's paused causes it
to get stuck in a paused state after the title screen.
@item It's hard to perform 3-tile running jumps
because MININIM is lacking platform edge detection.
@item Kid doesn't stumble on guards, in case he
manages to pass through them without being hit.
@item Guards continue to advance towards the kid,
even when he is running towards them.
@item Guard mode changing doesn't work for guards
that died falling, spiked or chopped.
@item Kid can't battle properly against more than one
guard at once.
@item Shadow death music in level 12 plays in a row if
reviving kid with R repeatedly in a short period of time.
@item Legacy level rooms above room 0 may have
traversable constructions at bottom over room 0's walls.
@item In legacy level 12 shadow appears sooner than
expected if the kid manages to enter room 15 from below after exiting
room 18 to the right.
@item Guards turn too quickly when their attention is
grabbed from opposite directions in a short period of time.
@item Drawing glitches occur in several situations
involving two characters near each other.
@item Fight mode collision detection is ill-behaved
for kid and guards.
@item Game doesn't pause while saving.
@item In some cases of death after fight, the normal death
tune is played along the fight one.
@item Falling close to door makes kid collide and
stabilize standing, instead of crouching.
@item Guard chasing logic has flaws and corner cases
that result in counter-intuitive guard behavior in certain situations.
@item If the kid is exactly 27 pixels from falling,
walking to the very edge and then from there again doesn't trigger a
misstep.
@item Turning close to door at its left causes a
spurious collision.
@item Game saves should store the remaining time of when
kid first enters the level, not of when the game is saved.
@item Simple jump might fall earlier than expected.
@end itemize
