@c
@c NEWS.texi -- User-visible changes since previous versions;
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@c %**start of header
@ifclear manual
@setfilename NEWS
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@settitle NEWS
@end ifclear
@include release.texi
@c %**end of header





@c --- homepage: Navigation bar;
@ifset homepage
@include navigation.texi
@end ifset





@c --- file: Copying notice;
@ifset file
@set FILE NEWS
@include copying.texi
@insertcopying
@end ifset





@c --- NEWS;
@ifclear manual
@centerchap News
@end ifclear

This document contains a list of user-visible changes worth mentioning.
The changes are split and ordered by version in reverse chronological
order.

@table @asis
@item @value{version}
@include latest-news.texi
@item 0.10
@noindent @strong{Features:}

@itemize
@item Joystick support.  To use a joystick just plug it in and press
@kbd{CTRL+J} to enable and auto-calibrate it on the fly.  See the manual
for the default mapping.  If the default mapping doesn't suit you or
your joystick, you can use the options @option{--joystick-axis},
@option{-joystick-button} and @option{--joystick-info} to define a new
mapping.  In case your joystick is ill-behaved the
@option{--joystick-axis-threshold} and
@option{--joystick-button-threshold} options may help.  Using a joystick
doesn't disable the keyboard --- you can use both interchangeably.
@item Classic numeric keypad control.  This is always enabled, and can
be used along the two other input methods (arrow keys and joystick).
The original game manual used to refer to this as the standard input
method.
@item Apoplexy level editor integration.  Just copy MININIM's executable
along with any dlls (if under @emph{Windows}) and its @file{data}
directory to apoplexy's @file{prince/} directory, rename the executable
to @file{prince.exe} (@file{prince} if under @emph{GNU/Linux}) and make
sure there is a @file{LEVELS.DAT} file there, and you are ready to go.
Apoplexy will invoke MININIM as a drop-in replacement for the original
engine.
@item Hue coloring support.  This makes the engine able to render
VGA color schemes like the 1.3 and 1.4 versions of the original game.
That's the default.  You can force particular hue modes by using the
@option{--hue-mode} option or the @kbd{F9} key binding.  To revert to
the previous and classic behavior use @option{--hue-mode=NONE}.
@item Support for reading legacy PoP 1 @file{LEVELS.DAT} file using
the option @option{--legacy-level=DAT}.  Put the @file{LEVELS.DAT} file
inside @file{data/dat-levels/} directory and use that option.
@item Support for reading legacy PoP 1 PLV extended level files using
the option @option{--legacy-level=PLV}.  Put the
@file{00.plv}..@file{15.plv} PLV files inside @file{data/plv-levels/}
and use that option.
@item Command line legacy compatibility for the sake of applications
which use it.  Used by apoplexy.
@item @file{LEVELS.DAT} legacy loading behavior compatibility for the
sake of applications that rely on it.  Used by apoplexy.  Just put the
@file{LEVELS.DAT} file in the same directory as the @file{mininim}
executable and preference will be given to it, over the legacy level
files under the @file{dat/legacy-levels/} directory.
@item Kid start position can be specified using the
@option{--start-pos} option.  Very useful for placing the kid in a
specific place for tests.  To start with the kid in level 12, room 15,
floor 0 and place 7, invoke MININIM with the options
@code{--start-level=12 --start-pos=15,0,7}.
@item Disable screensaver by default.
@item Guards have infallible defense in refraction periods, for longer
and more dramatic battles.
@item Shadow in legacy level 12 has the same total/current life points
as the kid, and life points are taken off one at a time, for a longer
and more dramatic battle.
@item @option{--keyboard-flip-mode} option renamed to
@option{--gamepad-flip-mode}, since now it applies to joysticks as well.
@end itemize

@noindent @strong{Bug fixes:}

All the bugs the author knew about at the time of this release have been
fixed.  If you've found a bug or annoyance in the previous version,
chances are it has been fixed, as well. ;-)

@itemize
@item Spurious wall collision occurs in kid's
stabilization movement.
@item Kid can't hang on a ledge after a
long floating fall.
@item Kid's @emph{run} movement after a
@emph{running turn} starts one frame off.
@item In some circumstances the kid is unable to reach
the other end after a jump, as if a force field prevented him from
landing there.
@item Kid dies after just touching guards.
@item Guards spuriously attack thin air while trying
to prevent the kid from bypassing them.
@item While in counter attack and counter defense mode
kid defends even if too far from the guard, when he could otherwise let
the guard strike only thin air.
@item Restarting the game while it's paused causes it
to get stuck in a paused state after the title screen.
@item It's hard to perform 3-tile running jumps
because MININIM is lacking platform edge detection.
@item Kid doesn't stumble on guards, in case he
manages to pass through them without being hit.
@item Guards continue to advance towards the kid,
even when he is running towards them.
@item Guard mode changing doesn't work for guards
that died falling, spiked or chopped.
@item Kid can't battle properly against more than one
guard at once.
@item Shadow death music in level 12 plays in a row if
reviving kid with R repeatedly in a short period of time.
@item Legacy level rooms above room 0 may have
traversable constructions at bottom over room 0's walls.
@item In legacy level 12 shadow appears sooner than
expected if the kid manages to enter room 15 from below after exiting
room 18 to the right.
@item Guards turn too quickly when their attention is
grabbed from opposite directions in a short period of time.
@item Drawing glitches occur in several situations
involving two characters near each other.
@item Fight mode collision detection is ill-behaved
for kid and guards.
@item Game doesn't pause while saving.
@item In some cases of death after fight, the normal death
tune is played along the fight one.
@item Falling close to door makes kid collide and
stabilize standing, instead of crouching.
@item Guard chasing logic has flaws and corner cases
that result in counter-intuitive guard behavior in certain situations.
@item If the kid is exactly 27 pixels from falling,
walking to the very edge and then from there again doesn't trigger a
misstep.
@item Turning close to door at its left causes a
spurious collision.
@item Game saves should store the remaining time of when
kid first enters the level, not of when the game is saved.
@item Simple jump might fall earlier than expected.
@end itemize

@item 0.9.2
@itemize
@item First release
@end itemize
@end table





@c --- homepage: Footer;
@ifset homepage
@include footer.texi
@end ifset
