@c
@c README.texi -- Description, distribution, obtaining, contact,
@c                bug reports, contribution, donation and hacking;
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@c %**start of header
@ifclear manual
@setfilename README
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@settitle README
@end ifclear
@include release.texi
@c %**end of header





@c --- Macros;

@c --- --- metaSection
@macro metaSection{name}
@ifset file
@node \name\
@chapter \name\
@end ifset
@ifset manual
@node \name\
@section \name\
@end ifset
@ifset homepage
@anchor{\name\}
@majorheading \name\
@end ifset
@end macro





@c --- homepage: Navigation bar;
@ifset homepage
@include navigation.texi

@majorheading Main

@multitable @columnfractions .1 .1 .1 .1 .1 .1
@headitem @ref{Download}
@tab @ref{Contact}
@tab @ref{Bug reporting}
@tab @ref{Contributing}
@tab @ref{Donating}
@tab @ref{Hacking}
@end multitable
@end ifset





@c --- file: Copying notice;
@ifset file
@set FILE README
@include copying.texi
@insertcopying
@end ifset





@c --- file: Table of contents;
@ifset file
@sp 1
@noindent
--- Table of Contents ---
@contents
@sp 2
@end ifset





@c --- file/manual: Preface;
@ifclear homepage
@ifset file
@unnumbered Preface
@end ifset

This @inlineifset{manual, chapter}@inlineifset{file, file} briefly
discuss matters relevant to @value{package} while a software package:
build, installation, distribution and contribution are some of the
covered topics.  Bear in mind that instructions in this
@inlineifset{manual, chapter}@inlineifset{file, file} are
package-specific; for general and in-depth configuration, build and
installation instructions refer to the @file{INSTALL} file present in
the top-level directory of the source distribution.  If you have checked
out the source tree from the VCS repository see @ref{Hacking}.

@ifset file
For other information about this package you can check the following
files found in the top level directory of the distribution:

@table @file
@item NEWS
User-visible changes since previous versions;
@item TODO
Features we want to see implemented someday;
@item THANKS
List of contributors;
@c @item BUGS
@c Bugs you must be aware of;
@item DONORS
People who supported the development by donations;
@item INSTALL
Generic build and installation instructions;
@item ABOUT-NLS
Internationalization and localization matters;
@item COPYING
The program license;
@item GNU-FREE-DOCUMENTATION-LICENSE
The documentation license;
@item ChangeLog
Detailed list of changes of the source code;
@item LINUX-AND-THE-GNU-SYSTEM
Article by Richard Stallman (RMS) talking about the relationship between
the GNU operating system and the kernel Linux.
@end table

@end ifset

@menu
* Description::    What this package is all about;
* Distribution::   The user's right to modify and redistribute;
* Getting a copy:: FTP server and VCS;
* Contact::        Forum and IRC;
* Bug reporting::  Support and bug trackers;
* Contributing::   Several ways to help the program's development;
* Donating::       Supporting the author's work;
* Hacking::        Get started with the VCS checkout;
@end menu

For more information about this program you can visit its home page at
@url{@value{webUrl}}.  If you want to receive notifications about new
releases of this program subscribe to the author's atom feed at
@url{@value{atomUrl}}.

@end ifclear





@c --- Description;
@ifclear manual
@ifset file
@chapter Description
@end ifset

@include description.texi

@end ifclear



@c --- file, manual: Distribution;
@ifclear homepage
@metaSection Distribution

This program is @dfn{free software}; this means that everyone is free to
use it and free to redistribute it under certain conditions.  This
program is not in the public domain; it is copyrighted and there are
restrictions on its distribution, but these restrictions are designed to
permit everything that a good cooperating citizen would want to do.
What is not allowed is to try to prevent others from further sharing any
version of this program that they might get from you.  The precise
conditions are found in the @inlineifset{file, GNU General Public
License (@file{COPYING} file)}@inlineifset{manual, GNU
@acronym{@url{@value{progLicenseURL}, GPL}, General Public Licence}}.
The program manual is covered by the @inlineifset{file, GNU Free
Documentation License (@file{GNU-FREE-DOCUMENTATION-LICENSE}
file)}@inlineifset{manual, GNU Free Documentation License (@ref{GNU
FDL})}.  This license is similar in spirit to the GNU General Public
License, but is more suitable for documentation.
@end ifclear





@c --- file, manual: Getting a copy;
@ifclear homepage
@metaSection Getting a copy

One way to get a copy of this program is from someone else who has it.
You need not ask for our permission to do so, or tell any one else; just
copy it.  If you have access to the Internet, you can get the latest
distribution version of this program at @url{@value{webUrl}}.

A VCS repository, where the development takes place, is also available.
It maintains the full history of modifications for every single source
file.  You can checkout any given revision of any file or get an
snapshot of the entire source tree in a particular desired state.
Special build tools, as described in @ref{Hacking}, are required to
build from those checkouts.  To stay up to date with the latest
developments in the source tree, you can anonymously checkout the
repository with the following command:
@example
git clone @value{GITurl}
@end example
@end ifclear





@c --- homepage: Download;
@ifset homepage
@anchor{Download}
@majorheading Download

@strong{The current stable release is @value{version}} (released
@value{date}).

@noindent
Here are the compressed sources and a GPG detached signature:
@example
@value{tarballUrl}
@value{tarSignUrl}
@end example

Use a @file{.sig} file to verify that the corresponding file (without
the @file{.sig} suffix) is intact.  First, be sure to download both
the @file{.sig} file and the corresponding tarball.  Then, run a
command like this:

@example
gpg --verify @value{tarSign}
@end example

If that command fails because you don't have the required public key,
then run this command to import it:

@example
gpg --recv-keys @value{keyID} --keyserver hkp://keys.gnupg.net
@end example

@noindent
and rerun the @code{gpg --verify} command.

This release is signed by @emph{@value{signer}}.  His key fingerprint
is @code{@value{fingerprint}}.

Check the key's authenticity with the command
@example
gpg --fingerprint @value{keyID} | sed -n '/^[[:blank:]]\+Key/s/^.*= //p'
@end example

It must print the following fingerprint:
@example
@value{fingerprint}
@end example

Otherwise something is wrong!  In that case don't use the downloaded
tarball and contact the author as described in @ref{Contact}.

A VCS repository, where the development takes place, is also
available.  To stay up to date with the latest developments in the
source tree, you can anonymously checkout the repository with the
following command:
@example
git clone @value{GITurl}
@end example
@end ifset





@c --- Contact
@metaSection Contact

You can get in touch with other users of this program by posting to its
forum at @url{@value{forumUrl}}.  You may also join us on our friendly
IRC channel at @url{@value{IRCurl}}.  You can contact the author at
@url{@value{authorMail}}.





@c --- Bug reporting
@metaSection Bug reporting

You can report bugs at @url{@value{issuesUrl}}.  Please, when reporting
a bug include enough information for the author to reproduce the
problem.  Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize
@item
The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug and
command line invocations of the program(s) involved (crucial!).
@item
A description of the problem and any samples of the erroneous output.
@item
The version number of the program(s) involved (use
@option{--version}).
@item
Hardware, operating system, and compiler versions (@code{uname -a}).
@item
Unusual options you gave to configure, if any (see
@file{config.status}).
@item
Anything else that you think would be helpful.
@end itemize





@c --- Contributing
@metaSection Contributing

This program is a collaborative effort and we encourage contributions
from anyone and everyone --- your help is very much appreciated.  You
can help in many ways:

@itemize
@item
Donate to the author in order to support his work. @xref{Donating}.
@item
Help users in the forum and IRC channel.  @xref{Contact}.
@item
Find and report bugs.  @xref{Bug reporting}.
@item
Suggest new features.
@item
Submit portability patches.
@end itemize





@c --- Donating;
@metaSection Donating
@include donating.texi




@c --- Hacking;
@metaSection Hacking

@noindent
The development sources are available through VCS:

@display
@value{GITweb}
@end display

If you are getting the sources from the VCS (or change
@file{configure.ac}), you'll need to have Automake, Autoconf and
help2man installed to (re)build.

Building from sources should be quite straightforward, provided you
install the Allegro@tie{}5 development libraries using your distribution’s
package manager.  If you use an apt based distribution (Debian, Ubuntu,
@enddots{}) you can do this by invoking the command:

@example
sudo apt-get install '^liballegro.*5-dev$'
@end example

When building the sources, the usual incantation @code{./bootstrap &&
./configure && make} is often enough. The installation step (@code{make
install}) is optional as MININIM is able to run directly from its source
directory (provided you don’t make a @env{VPATH} build, in which case
you need to specify the @emph{data path}. See the @option{--data-path}
option).  After that first time, running @command{make} should suffice
to rebuild the program with your changes.  See file @file{INSTALL}.

When committing changes to the repository always create an entry in the
@file{doc/release/latest-news.texi} file for any user-visible changes or
additions made.  This file is intended to provide the latest release
news for the @file{NEWS.texi} and @file{ANNOUNCEMENT.texi} files to
avoid duplication of information and syncing work.  After a release is
made the news items should be moved to the @file{NEWS.texi} file and
another news list should be built from scratch in the
@file{latest-news.texi} file.

@section MinGW

These are the steps to build using MinGW, in a machine running Microsoft
Windows.

@itemize
@item Download and install git: @url{https://git-scm.com/download/win}.

@item Clone the gnulib repository:
  @code{git clone git://git.savannah.gnu.org/gnulib.git} and add the
  gnulib root to your @env{PATH}.

@item Download MinGW:
  @url{http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/mingw/Installer/mingw-get-setup.exe}

@item Install the packages: @samp{mingw32-base}, @samp{mingw32-gcc-g++},
      @samp{msys-base}, @samp{mingw32-autoconf},
      @samp{mingw32-automake}.

@item Rename the file @file{C:/MinGW/msys/1.0/etc/fstab.sample} to @file{fstab}.

@item Download Allegro:
  @url{http://cdn.allegro.cc/file/library/allegro/5.0.10/allegro-5.0.10-mingw-4.7.0.zip}
  and extract its root folder's contents to @file{C:\MinGW}.

@item Run msys: @file{C:\MinGW\msys\1.0\msys.bat}

@item Clone the repository: @code{git clone https://github.com/oitofelix/mininim.git}

@item Build: @code{cd mininim && ./bootstrap && ./configure && make}

@item Distribute the resulting binary mininim.exe along with the following dlls:
  @file{C:\MinGW\bin\libstdc++-6.dll} and
  @file{C:\MinGW\bin\libgcc_s_dw2-1.dll}.
@end itemize




@c --- homepage: Footer;
@ifset homepage
@include footer.texi
@end ifset
