@c
@c TODO.texi -- Features we want to see implemented someday;
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2016 Bruno Félix Rezende Ribeiro <oitofelix@gnu.org>
@c
@c Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
@c document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
@c Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
@c Foundation; with no Invariant Sections.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU Free Documentation
@c License along with this program.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
@c

@c %**start of header
@ifclear manual
@setfilename TODO
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c @documentlanguage en_US
@firstparagraphindent insert
@footnotestyle end
@settitle TODO
@end ifclear
@include release.texi
@c %**end of header





@c --- homepage: Navigation bar;
@ifset homepage
@include navigation.texi
@end ifset





@c --- file: Copying notice;
@ifset file
@set FILE TODO
@include copying.texi
@insertcopying
@end ifset





@c --- TO DO;
@ifclear manual
@centerchap To do
@end ifclear

This @inlineifset{manual, section}@inlineifset{file,
file}@inlineifset{homepage, page} contains a list of ideas and
features which would be nice to see implemented some day.  If you are
ready to start working on any of these TODO items, we appreciate your
help; please write to @email{@value{mailBugAddr}} so we can be aware
that the problem is being addressed, and talk with you how to do it
best.  @inlineifclear{homepage, It is best to consult the latest
version of this file in the program source code repository.
@inlineifset{file, See the sections ``Getting a copy'' and ``Hacking''
of the @file{README} file}@inlineifset{manual, See @ref{Getting a
copy} and @ref{Hacking}} for instruction on how to access it.}

Since the developers of this program are willing to assign the
copyright of this package to FSF, please be prepared to sign legal
papers to transfer the copyright on your work to the FSF too.  For
more details on this and some more practical details about getting
involved, see @inlineifset{manual,
@ref{Contributing}}@inlineifset{homepage,
@url{README.html#Contributing, how to contribute}}@inlineifset{file,
the section ``Contributing'' in the @file{README} file}.

As well as the issues listed here, there are bug reports, which are
effectively to-do that can use your help at the
@url{https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=mininim, bug tracker web
interface}.  See @inlineifset{homepage, @url{README.html#Bug-reporting,
how to report a bug}}@inlineifset{file, the section ``Bug reporting'' in
@file{README} file}@inlineifset{manual, @ref{Bug reporting}} for more
information.

Here are the major features we want to implement for futures versions of
this package:

@itemize
@item Joystick support
@item Native level format
@item Level editor
@item Level generator module
@item Guile scripting
@item Network play
@end itemize




@c --- homepage: Footer;
@ifset homepage
@include footer.texi
@end ifset
